



LAM”- chakra 1 (root)

“VAM”- chakra 2 (sacral/navel)

“RAM”- chakra 3 (solar plexus)

“YAM”- chakra 4 (heart)

“HAM”- chakra 5 (throat)

“OM”- chakra 6 (third eye/brow)

“OM”- chakra 7 (crown)


I was trained to meditate by focussing only on 3rd eye which I did for 4 years. I had good experiences. Nevertheless, I realized that in order to effectively benefit from meditation I have to open my other chakras as well. Today, I spent my entire day watching YouTube videos, reading and researching about all the 7 chakras. Finally, I selected this YouTube video to start my meditation. My meditation started late at night, around 1.30am ended  at 3.30.

I played this video twice at 2 sessions. Here's my experience:
1st session
I started by focussing according to the sequence of mantras and the chakras. First my root chakra became hot. I had tingling sensation at my sacral chakra followed by burps. Solar plexus chakra was okay, no effects. Heart chakra was painful. My heart was aching. I felt worried but I continued. Throat chakra was okay. 3rd eye was okay. Tingling sensation at my crown chakra.

2nd session ( 5 minutes break and a sip of water)
Heat on my root chakra lessened. Sacral chakra was okay with mild burps probably because I drank some water. Solar plexus was okay again. Surprisingly my heart chakra felt better this time with very mild ache. Throat chakra had mild effect as if it was clearing. 3rd eye was okay. Tingling sensation existed once I reached crown chakra.

I looked back on the effects and realised the pains and effects were mainly because of my characteristics. Example:During the 2nd session I was imagining myself burning the negativity and replacing them with positive traits. This was experimented when I reached heart chakra. It worked and lessened the pain tremendously.

I light up a candle to focus during both sessions. I saw points of light during both sessions. At times I closed my eyes and I saw round red translucent balls associated to root chakra and blue/violet I think associated to throat chakra. After both sessions, while I was walking towards my bedroom, I saw 2 points of light. One on my right and another on my left as if they're following me.

Prior to the meditations, the phone I was using to watch this video had its screen going blank as if I was blinking. This happened 3 - 4 times in a row. This phenomenon was discussed in other forums and websites about effects of cosmic/divine energy on electronics near us.

Most importantly, you should know the qualities of each chakra points. What they represent and the color of the chakras. Imagine the quality of the chakra and focus on it. Talk to your inner self of it's qualities. This helps clear the chakras faster. Also, to imagine the color at each point. I applied reiki method by imagining the chakra spinning clockwise at each point. When the video progresses to next chakra, imagine starting from the beginning again and stop to focus more at the next particular chakra. Repeat this until you reach the crown. I also imagined that the ‘snake’ uncoils each time I focus on the chakras.

I may have missed out some points here. And the methods I applied may vary from person to person. Feel free to experiment and share your experiences. Om Shanti.

Note: I am not a native English speaker so, expect some grammatical errors and poor command. And, the word ‘I’ used above is referring to my soul.



